Installation guide and README reorganization. (#11)
intel/owca: README.rst

    :target: https://travis-ci.com/intel/owca

.. contents:: Table of Contents

**This software is pre-production and should not be deployed to production servers.**

Introduction
============

Orchestration-aware Workload Collocation Agent goal is to reduce interference between collocated tasks and increase tasks density while ensuring the quality of
service for high priority tasks. Chosen approach is to enable real-time resource isolation management
to ensure that high priority jobs meet their Service Level Objective (SLO) and best-effort jobs
effectively utilize as many idle resources as possible.

Resource usage can be increased by:

- collocating best effort and high priority tasks to exploit resources that are underutilized by high priority applications,
- collocating tasks that do not compete for shared resources on the platform.

.. image:: docs/overview.png

OWCA abstracts compute node, workloads, monitoring and resource allocation.
An externally provided algorithm is responsible for allocating resources or anomaly detection logic. OWCA
and the algorithm exchange information about current resource usage, isolation actuations or detected

> anomalies. OWCA logs information about detected anomalies, resource allocation and any metrics involved to a remote storage such as Kafka

Reviewer: ```suggestion
anomalies. OWCA stores information about detected anomalies, resource allocation, workloads performance metrics and platform utilization metrics to a remote storage such as Kafka.
```

The diagram below puts OWCA in context of Mesos cluster and existing monitoring infrastructure:

.. image:: docs/context.png

Getting started
===============

------------

OWCA is targeted at and tested on Centos 7.5.

*Note*: for full production installation please follow this detailed `installation guide <docs/install.rst>`_.

.. code-block:: shell

    # Install required software.
    sudo yum install epel-release -y
    sudo yum install git python36 -y
    python3.6 -m ensurepip --user
    python3.6 -m pip install --user pipenv

    # Clone the repository & build.
    git clone https://github.com/intel/owca
    cd owca
    pipenv install --dev
    pipenv shell
    tox

    # Run manually (alongside Mesos agent):
    sudo dist/owca.pex --config configs/mesos_example.yaml --root

Configuration
=============

OWCA introduces simple but extensible mechanism to compose necessary python classes
into complete software stack. OWCA main control loop is based on ``Runner`` base class that implements

> single ``run`` blocking method. Depending on ``Runner`` class used, different execution mode is performed (eg. detection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
single ``run`` blocking method. Depending on ``Runner`` class used, the OWCA is run in different execution mode (detection,
```

> or allocation or both). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allocation or in both modes).
```

``DetectionRunner`` implements the loop calling ``detect`` function in
regular and configurable intervals. See `detection API <docs/detection.rst>`_ for details.

Conceptually ``Runner`` reads a state of the system (both metrics and workloads),
passes the information to external component (an algorithm), logs the algorithm input and output using implementation of  `Storage <owca/storage.py>`_
and allocates resources if instructed.

Following snippet is an example configuration of a runner:

.. code-block:: yaml

    runner: !SomeRunner
        node: !SomeNode
        callback_component: !ClassImplementingCallback
        storage: !SomeStorage

> When OWCA is executed with such configuration then and instance of ``SomeRunner`` is created and following properties will be set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running OWCA with the above mentioned configuration, an instance of the class ``SomeRunner`` will be created. The instance's properties will be set to:
```

- ``node`` - to an instance of ``SomeNode``
- ``callback_component`` - to an instance of ``ClassImplementingCallback``
- ``storage`` - to an instance of ``SomeStorage``

> Configuration mechanism enables user to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration mechanism allows to:
```

> - Create and configure complex python objects (e.g. ``DetectionRunner``, ``MesosNode``, ``KafkaStorage``) using `YAML tags`_ .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create and configure complex python objects (e.g. ``DetectionRunner``, ``MesosNode``, ``KafkaStorage``) using `YAML tags`_.
```

- Inject dependencies (with type checking support) into constructed objects using `dataclasses <https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html>`_ annotations.

> - Registered external classes using ``-r`` command line argument or by using ``owca.config.register`` decorator API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Register external classes using ``-r`` command line argument or by using ``owca.config.register`` decorator API.
```

.. _`YAML tags`: http://yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html#id2764295

See `external detector example <docs/extrenal_detector_example.rst>`_ for more details.

Following built-in components are available:

- `MesosNode <owca/mesos.py>`_ provides workload discovery on Mesos cluster node where `mesos containerizer <http://mesos.apache.org/documentation/latest/mesos-containerizer/>`_ is used.
- `DetectionRunner <owca/runner.py>`_ implements anomaly detection loop and encodes anomalies as metrics to enable alerting and analysis.
- `NOPAnomalyDetector <owca/detectors.py>`_ dummy "no operation" detector that returns no metrics, nor anomalies. See `Detection API <docs/detection.rst>`_ for more details.
- `KafkaStorage <owca/storage.py>`_ logs metrics to  `Kafka streaming platform <https://kafka.apache.org/>`_ using configurable topics 
- `LogStorage <owca/storage.py>`_ logs metrics to standard error or to a file at configurable location.

Workloads
=========

> Project provides Dockerfiles and helper scripts to prepare reference workloads to be run on Mesos cluster using Aurora framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project contains Dockerfiles together with helper scripts aimed at preparation of reference workloads to be run on Mesos cluster using Aurora framework.
```

> To enable anomaly detection algorithm validation all workloads are prepared to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable anomaly detection algorithm validation the workloads are prepared to:
```

> - provide continuous stream of Application Performance Metrics using `wrappers <docs/wrappers.rst>`_,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- provide continuous stream of Application Performance Metrics using `wrappers <docs/wrappers.rst>`_ (all workloads),
```

> - simulate varying load (patches to generate sine-like pattern of requests per second are available for `YCSB <workloads/ycsb/intel.patch>`_ and `rpc-perf <workloads/rpc_perf/intel_rpc-perf-ratelimit.patch>`_ )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- simulate varying load (patches to generate sine-like pattern of requests per second are available for `YCSB <workloads/ycsb/intel.patch>`_ and `rpc-perf <workloads/rpc_perf/intel_rpc-perf-ratelimit.patch>`_ ).
```

> to validate anomaly detection algorithm in workload collocation case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. contents:: Table of Contents

**This software is pre-production and should not be deployed to production servers.**

Introduction
============

Orchestration-aware Workload Collocation Agent goal is to reduce interference between collocated tasks and increase tasks density while ensuring the quality of
service for high priority tasks. Chosen approach is to enable real-time resource isolation management
to ensure that high priority jobs meet their Service Level Objective (SLO) and best-effort jobs
effectively utilize as many idle resources as possible.

Resource usage can be increased by:

- collocating best effort and high priority tasks to exploit resources that are underutilized by high priority applications,
- collocating tasks that do not compete for shared resources on the platform.

.. image:: docs/overview.png

OWCA abstracts compute node, workloads, monitoring and resource allocation.
An externally provided algorithm is responsible for allocating resources or anomaly detection logic. OWCA
and the algorithm exchange information about current resource usage, isolation actuations or detected
anomalies. OWCA can save all collected metrics to Kafka message queue.

> The diagram below puts OWCA in context of Mesos cluster and existing monitoring infrastructure:

Reviewer 2: Why existing? We expect user to have Kafka (and Grafana if our dashboards are to be used). Any database can be used to store metrics though and we have no idea what a customer has in place.

Author: you're right - wrong wording - I've replaced existing with example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diagram below puts OWCA in context of Mesos cluster and monitoring infrastructure:
```

- Centos 7.5

*Note*: for full production installation please follow this detailed `installation guide <docs/install.rst>`_.

.. code-block:: shell

    # Install required software.
    sudo yum install epel-release -y
    sudo yum install git python36 -y
    python3.6 -m ensurepip --user
    python3.6 -m pip install --user pipenv

    # Clone the repository & build.
    git clone https://github.com/intel/owca
    cd owca
    pipenv install --dev
    pipenv shell
    tox

    # Run manually (alongside Mesos agent):
    sudo dist/owca.pex --config configs/mesos_example.yaml --root

Configuration
=============

OWCA introduces simple but extensible mechanism to compose necessary python classes
into complete software stack. OWCA main control loop is based on ``Runner`` base class that implements
single ``run`` blocking method. Depending on ``Runner`` class used, different execution mode is performed (eg. detection
or allocation or both). 

``DetectionRunner`` implements the loop calling ``detect`` function in
regular and configurable intervals. See `detection API <docs/detection.rst>`_ for details.

Conceptually ``Runner`` reads a state of the system (both metrics and workloads),

> passes the information to external component (an algorithm), logs the algorithm input and output using implementation of  ```Storage`` <owca/storage.py>`_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
passes the information to external component (an algorithm), logs the algorithm input and output using implementation of  `Storage <owca/storage.py>`_
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/939646/49116498-94a6ce80-f252-11e8-82ae-75778d979cc3.png)
;(

.. image:: https://travis-ci.com/intel/owca.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.com/intel/owca

.. contents:: Table of Contents

=====================================================
OWCA - Orchestration-Aware Workload Collocation Agent
=====================================================

Introduction
============

> Project aims to reduce interference between co-located tasks and increase tasks density while ensuring the quality of

Author: commited

service for high priority tasks. One possible solution is to dynamically manage platform isolation
mechanisms to ensure that high priority jobs meet their service level objective (SLO) and best-effort jobs
effectively utilize as many idle resources as possible.

Reduced infrastructure cost is an important aspect of cloud services. One approach is to raise server
utilization by providing effective use of server resources. Efficiency can be improved by:

- launching best effort tasks next to latency-critical services and exploiting resources that are underutilized by latency-critical workloads,
- by co-locating workloads that do not have contention for the same shared resource on the system.

.. image:: docs/overview.png

The OWCA abstracts compute node, workloads, monitoring and resource allocation.
An externally provided algorithm is responsible for allocating resources or anomaly detection logic. OWCA
and the algorithm exchange information about current resource usage, isolation actuations and detected
anomalies. OWCA can save all collected metrics to Kafka message queue.

> The picture below puts OWCA in context of Mesos cluster and existing monitoring infrastructure:

Author: replaced with "an example"

.. image:: docs/context.png

Getting started
===============

Requirements
------------

- Centos 7.5

*Note*: for full production installation please follow this detailed `installation guide <docs/install.rst>`_.

.. code-block:: shell

    # Install required software.
    sudo yum install epel-release -y
    sudo yum install git python36 -y
    python3.6 -m ensurepip --user
    python3.6 -m pip install --user pipenv

    # Clone the repository & build.
    git clone https://github.com/intel/owca
    cd owca
    pipenv install --dev
    pipenv shell
    tox

    # Run manually (alongside Mesos agent):
    sudo dist/owca.pex --config configs/mesos_example.yaml --root

Configuration
=============

OWCA introduces simple but extensible mechanism to compose necessary python classes

> into complete software stack. OWCA main control loop is based on ``Runner`` base class that implements

Author: You're right, I though that conceptully it is clear, but it isn't, I've added them - anyway I need them to explain how to extend OWCA with another orchestrator or logic loop.

single ``run`` blocking method. Depending on ``Runner`` class used, different execution mode is performed (eg. detection
or allocation or both). 

For example ``DetectionRunner`` implements the loop that calls ``detect`` function in
regular configured intervals. Check `detection API <docs/detection.rst>`_ for details.

Conceptually ``Runner`` reads a state of the system (both metrics and workloads),
passes those information to external component (plugin), store results using ``Storage`` class 
and reconfigures system if necessary (in allocation execution mode).

Components relation, when using given configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

    runner: !SomeRunner
        node: !MesosNode

>         callback_component: !ClassImplementingCallback

Author: It should, it plays the same role as SomeRunner and SomeNode, it should given you a felling that those are the components that you can provide and use.

- `DetectionRunner <owca/runner.py>`_ implements basic loop detecting anomalies and encoding them as metrics (to build alerting system),
- `NOPAnomalyDetector <owca/detectors.py>`_ dummy "no operation" detector that returns not addtionall metrics or anomalies (for debugging purposes), please check `Detection API <detection.rst>`_ for more details,
- `KafkaStorage <owca/storage.py>`_ to store all metrics in `Kafka <https://kafka.apache.org/>`_ platform in configured topics 
- `LogStorage <owca/storage.py>`_ to send all metrics to standard error or redirect to configured file with ``output_filename``

Workloads
=========

Project provides Dockerfiles and helper build and run scripts for preparing reference workloads to be run on Mesos cluster with Aurora framework.

All workloads are prepared to: 

- provide continous stream of performance metrics (using metrics) with help of `wrapper <docs/wrapper.rst>`_,
- that can simulate varying load (patches to configure sinusoid like rate change over defined period for `YCSB <workloads/ycsb/intel.patch>`_ and `rpc-perf <workloads/rpc_perf/intel_rpc-perf-ratelimit.patch>`_ )
  

> to validate anomaly detection algorithm in workload collocation case.

Author: I accepted a change, and idea here is to use "workoads" script and runner to actually validate that algorihmt and OWCA are working properly.
